So we wanna take some of the tedium
from finding some of the selectors like
because, again, like there's not that
many things on this page, right?
There's a list of packed items is also
unpacked items, there's some inputs,
there's some buttons.
But I love to do, it's just to hold on to
those and not have to go searching for
them all the time, right?
So we use some aliases
in order to do that.
What I might try to do
is to the filter and
maybe we'll move one from
one list to the other.
So if I think I'm gonna use
them throughout a set of tests,
it probably behooves me to do
that in the before each block.
Otherwise, I will have to do these
in every test at which point
I've kind of defeated the purpose
of storing them in aliases, right?
Like why wouldn't I just do them once, and
then have a reference to them
that I can get my hands on later?
One caveat that I will just
kind of put out now again,
to put them into a bookmark in your head
is runs before you do anything else.
Which means if you go looking for things
that are not on the page yet, right?
For instance, like the one you're gonna
click the button add to the page,
it's not gonna find anything, right?
And so
you're gonna put the rules of the sun,
an alias rule is a rule of again, right?
If you go looking for something on
the initial page, and it's not there yet,
all your tests are gonna fail or whatever
tests we're using we're gonna fail,
because it's not on the page yet, right?
So this only works for
things that are there before each test.
Otherwise, you can either
have a nested describe,
you can do a whole bunch of other things.
But if your plan was to like store one and
then navigate to that page afterwards,
it won't work.
Because when you went to go looking for
it you're not on the page that had it yet,
right?
So even if I put all these before
I visited the page Itself,
they will fail for a good reason,
because they weren't there,
because they didn't go to
the page where they were.
Okay, so what if we wanted to get,
we know we wanna have at least
the filter component, and
we wanna have maybe all the items,
the packed items in the unpacked item?
So let's start with the filter items,
you can verify this by
going into the playground.
So we've got the filter items,
we'll call it as you can choose,
you wanna call it filter input, item
filter, we'll call it filter input, right?
So we've got that, and now I need the
three lists, and we saw in the previous
tests before that they are items
items unpacked and items packed.
So we can go ahead, and
we can try that out, and
we'll say, all items, and yeah,
these are strings you like camel case,
you can use camel case,
you like hyphenation you use
kebab case as they call it.
I don't even know what I like honestly,
it depends on the project,
I think like kebab case more.
But then I think about it in terms of
JavaScript variables, it doesn't matter
just don't get your teammates to
hate you and just be consistent.
So they're just strings,
whatever you wanna call them will work.
In this case, I started writing
camel case, so here we are,
because you can argue that
with HTML they have hyphens,
I'm not arguing though
with anyone right now.
Items unpacked should be,
we'll call that unpacked items, and
then the packed ones are like
the unpacked ones with two letters less.
So now, I have these as aliases
that I'm setting before every test,
which means I don't have to go looking for
them.
I just reference the ones that I need, and
do the things that I need to do with them.
So if I wanted to kind of do a version
of the filtering that I saw before
I could say something along the lines
of it should be filter items.
It's not the best test name,
but that's life going, so
we've got that, it should filter items,
it just should filter items.
And so here we can say, okay,
side I get in this case,
we're just gonna say at filter input,
type iPhone,
and if they do that all the items, right?
So I could say,
Go look at all the items on the page,
all atoms should not
contain the text hoodie,
which does not have the letters
iPhone in it, right?
So let's go ahead I think I need to
switch to the other testers points,
we'll stop those,
we'll go over the aliases.
All right, and that asserts that it is not
there, and you can see on the page what is
there, so you can visually confirm
that the test is doing what you want.
We could argue that another test like we
wrote previously was to do the same thing,
but verify that what we think
is on there as well, but
this is mostly getting us comfortable
in this case with the aliases.
All right, let's live code one more here
where I'm gonna get to the point where I
find one, I click it, and then I hope
that it is on the other side, right?
So should do that, we wanna verify
something along those lines,
which means go find one,
I don't even really care which one it is,
click it, and then verify that
is now in the other side, right?
So go ahead, and we'll say,
I'm doing this one just
it should move items
From one list to the other, right?
And so we'll say That,
all right, from the unpacked items, so
we'll say side I get I unpacked items,
go get me the first one.
And again, like in this case,
could I do that in the before each, right?
But maybe added one to
the screen this is again,
you don't have to be in the before each,
it's whenever you think you have it.
If you wanna share it amongst all
the tests it needs to end before each,
if it's bespoke to one,
then you just need a reference to
it that works as well is
like I don't even question.
I don't know, cool, and then now,
I have a reference to this one,
so I have it as the overall item, right?
And I also can then go find this
checkbox for instance, right?
And so I can do something along
those lines, I'm curious this
is like how I would literally do it if I
was writing the test which is do I like,
yeah, I wrote the sample apps.
I don't even really remember did I do
that trick where you put the label
around the whole thing?
So you click on one it moves,
did I not do it?
Do I need the checkbox?
So what I'm gonna do in this case is go
ahead, and just click on that one, and
see if I get the effect
that I want visually.
Again, this is how if I was literally
writing a test at the portal,
how I would probably start to like very
iteratively put together the test.
Because yeah, like I'm fine doing that,
because then the idea is I've done this.
And now it'll run automated from
that point forward, so we'll go and
find the item question And
we'll go ahead and
we'll click it, Right?
And so let's say, let's go ahead, and
just rerun this test to see
doesn't look like anything moved.
Looks like, you're unclear what I
maybe have to find the label in
this case rather than the LI itself, so
we could do something As well.
Okay, this one I can only
click on a single element, and
I gave it four elements, right?
That's interesting, right?
Because I thought this was
the first one in there, cool.
So not totally sure in this case,
what's happening is clicking worked.
One of the things I can do
as I go through is yeah,
I didn't question seems to
be the entire list, right?
Yeah.
>> Is it returning an array,
because we don't have the LI?
>> It is probably, if this has the h3,
this like if I go up here,
I can kind of see that pin,
it's now going to my console, right?
It's the section, right?
So yeah, it's working, right?
It's just not what I thought
should be in that case,
which is yeah, unpacked items,
the first one is the section.
There's only one thing it is the section
I have a no hope in this case, right?
But again, this is the interesting
part of the debugging,
which is you get every step along the way
to see what it was as we went through.
So I can go up, I can pin it,
which one will it log into my console and
show me the element in this case.
But also you notice as I kind of hovered
over I can see what I got every moment.
So I'm not just throwing
code at the wall here,
I am literally kind of just watching
as it steps through everything.
And this is where the tool itself
becomes incredibly powerful,
because like there's a unit test.
Let's be honest, what we'd be doing
right now, console logging, right?
But I don't have to do that, because I
actually have a visual tool around us.
All right, so
what I might do in this case,
really because we want to
make this a little bit better
is I probably want to go find
an ally in this case, right?
Maybe I actually wanna find the label I'm
not totally sure yet, what I wanna do.
So we'll go ahead and we'll try it out,
this point you can see that it moved,
right?
So now the actual exercising
of this totally works,
and we now just wanna verify
that what ever we clicked on,
in this case,
it was the toothbrush moved over.
And again, like if you have to hard
code in toothbrush I guess find for
like as with dummy data
when you're just learning.
But ideally, something where
you can refer to the thing and
make sure whatever it is
moved is probably better.
So the item in question, right?
Is the first LI, so
I could say, let's try this was
a site I get we're gonna say,
packed items, right?
And then we're gonna see if we can find,
do I wanna look for the text?
I'm not totally sure,
see this works actually.
Like my sense is like, this is where
we're moving from the page and
putting back on it's maybe
not the exact same item.
So yeah, the only works of the get, and so
really we kind of just need
the text in this case, right?
I wanna make sure that something with that
same label exists, because depending on
the framework, it might totally
rip that element off the page,
and put a new element on
rather than moving it, right?
This is felt in this case, by like we act
reconciler is gonna do different things
depending on the use case.
You don't wanna like hard-code your
implementation to the nuances of whatever
reconciler compiler is doing.
You wanna basically make sure that
the thing is what you expect, right?
So I could also like have an alias for
the label, right?
That seems good, because then I could
theoretically get its text, right?
So I could, and
this is probably a little like for
one test like I was doing this for
a lot more, so
we could do what we had there, and
we could say item label, right?
And then we could also again,
depending on what I need for
the test in this case,
since I will be clicking
on it in a second,
I could go ahead and say,
item label, and
then I can invoke its text.
And I can store that
item name I don't like,
the navy part when I'm making
this up is probably a weak spot.
But now, we wanna say, go ahead, and
we still need to click on it, right?
So here, we'll do, and
I'm pretty sure there's fun
stuff you can do like remember,
like you go down and up across the chain
since I have these, I'm not doing that.
So go ahead and get the item label,
And click on it.
So really these first three, I'm making
a bunch of values that I can reference.
Go find me the first item,
go ahead and find this label.
One would argue I could probably
make this one alias as well,
maybe we'll try it in a second.
Then go ahead and click on it, and
then I wanna make sure that the packed
items contains this item name.
And so what I might do here is get
that as an actual value, right?
And so this again,
if you have two cypress things, and
you wanna be like normally,
if you're just writing this in a unitest,
you'd be like expect variable to
equal whatever, other variable.
In this cases, there are chains
how do you mix two chains?
So one of them I should
probably get down in this case,
I could say side I get an item name.
And we could say then with the actual
text go ahead look the packed items,
do you have that text?
Works, you see that it does, right?
So let's just talk about
this one more time,
without a big intelligence
thing in the way.
Again, since I'm not really using
unpacked items anything, but
finding the first one, I could
probably go find the label as well or
the first label, I'm guessing,
I could probably just swap this out.
Let's see.
Find label and they got the first one.
All right, so I took a step out of there,
like go the unpacked items,
go get any of the labels, right?
Grab the first one, I need to hold
on to that, I also wanted to text,
because I need to go click on it too.
So give me the label, give me its text,
click on the label, or
the checkbox in this case, right?
Cuz it's wrapping the checkbox.
And then when we actually have its value,
go ahead and
make sure that content is
on the packed item, right?
So you can kind of store
stuff as you need it, and
be able to kind of get those
values as you go through, right?
And like I said before, aliases are fine
for some of these selectors, other things
you could do here if you wanna do, there's
a bunch of ways you could do this right?
Here we're trying to take stuff on
the page, an alternative approach, right?
If this is like stressing you out a little
bit, you could have just had like a value
that you added to the page by
typing in the form, right?
And then you can go find the element
that contains that, click on it, and
move it to the other one.
That you'd probably have one for
the input, the button click the two forms.
There are different ways that
you can go about doing it,
it's about the kind of flow that you have.
In this case, we had stuff on the page, so
we went and found it, and labeled it, so
we could use it later, you might
choose to add stuff onto the page.
There's a bunch of things that
you could do in this case,
you could just be like,
listen somewhere at this point I
could theoretically do
the dot then here as well.
And get rid of an alias to, right?
So go get it text, See.
I could refactor it as well.
So finally, I'm late we'll get this text
with that text, go click on the item
label, and make sure that the packed items
contains it, that works as well, right?
So there's different ways that
you can do it, and like I said,
I was kind of extemporaneously
live coding this one.
So you could refactor it as well,
but there's yeah,
different approaches that
you can take along the way.
>> Is it important to discard these
aliases when they're not needed anymore?
>> I mean they'll get cleaned up by the
describe block, they only live as long as
either the test that they're in, or
the describe block in this case.
So you by definition the same
way we're revisiting the page,
like we lose everything on every test run,
right?
That's why before we go to
the page as a fresh page, right?
Each time.